<I> Good evening . My name is [ Interviewer ] . Today 's date is the 15th of May , 2013 . I 'm continuing my interviews with a professor at [ U6 ] . Madam may I ask you to introduce yourself ?
<R> Yes , I 'm [ R6 ] from [ U6 ] . I 'm the director of Graduate School of Art .
<I> Thank you so very much . And do you understand that this is a recorded interview ?
<R> I do .
<I> And do I have your permission to record this interview ?
<R> Yes , you do .
<I> Thank you so very much . May I ask how long have you been employed at [ U6 ] ?
<R> I 've been employed since July 1st , 2007 so it would be going on six years .
<I> Thank you so very much . And you stated what your position was so may I ask , what is your education background ?
<R> I completed my undergraduate studies in [ U8 ] . I completed my graduate with distinction at the California College with the arts in Northern California . And then I was a visiting scholar in Japan for four years after all of that .
<I> Fantastic . And may I ask , what is your primary discipline ?
<R> Wow that is a good question . In school I was trained in printmaking ; at the graduate level printmaking and sculpture . I went on later to work in photography and now I consider myself a cross media artist .
<I> Excellent . May I ask , how do you define research ?
<R> Wow , you know , I did look at this at the script but I you know , I 'm trying hard to avoid it actually . Probably the closest definition would be you know , something that activity or series of activities that advance knowledge , either create new knowledge or that push existing knowledge forward in some way and in often this requires a certain level of creative especially if you are generating new concepts or methodologies or strategies you know , strategies or production in some way . So it 's a very loose definition – I 've read a lot of books and I have to say it 's , I mean on this subject of art and research and the definitions seem to approximate what I said but you know , some of them are still a morphoses to be useless . So there you have it .
<I> Alright , thank you so very much . May I ask , what do you understand art research to be ?
<R> I think it would be all of what I said in a practice based situation but I have to say having spent eight years at the [ U7 ] ; I know that my colleagues and I know when I was there I was at a similar mind but perhaps it 's not as productive to consider that art production and art making is on power with research . So at least the first eight years of my academic career as a full time teacher was spent with my entire schools very deliberately skirting that issue to very deliberately avoid kind of re-enacting a bias I guess . We did n't want to reinforce any biases . So often times the conversation of art as research ends up putting art in a very defensive position .
So I would say that the best that I could approximate it is that it would as well be you know , something that actually contributes to and possibly generates knowledge and discourse but in a studio setting .
<I> Thank you so much . Are you aware of art research as you defined it going on at [ U6 ] and if so where and how ?
<R> I think that art connects with research very closely . I would like to think when I talk to scientist or when I collaborate with scientist that our conversation could go back to the labs and change the course of scientific research . In reality I think that is a difficult to obtain but I think that art works with research , art integrates with research , art as research is hard to say . I think I ca n't answer .
<I> I think you actually did rather well .
<R> Okay .
<I> Now , I understand that you are going to Berlin in a few days ?
<R> I am , I 'm going on Friday .
<I> And could you tell me a little bit about your trip , is that with the art science initiative ?
<R> Actually , it 's not [ Interviewer ] . The Berlin program is a separate program where we , I take nine students to Berlin ; we spent the first half of the trip considering Berlin as a contemporary culture that is redefining itself both with its traumatic history and also as a city that has such a tremendous mosaic of people leaving there that everything is sort of up for interpretation and architects and urban planners and artists are working to create a kind of metropolis where there would be a multiplicity of voices .
So the first half of our trip would be looking at memorials , monument , ways of recollecting , ways of forgetting . And the last part of the trip will involve looking at a lot of contemporary art and looking at all the reasons why Berlin has been consider one of the most significant cities that produces urban guard work in the world . Arguably the most important art city in the world for a whole lot of reasons .
So this is not part of the Art Science Initiative but it does allow us as outsiders of the culture to drop in and think about how travel , itinerancy , place , space and history all shape are thinking in our studio production . So it should be very reach .
<I> Wow , thank you . I wish I could go .
<R> I wish you could too .
<I> Can I ask you about the art science initiative , could you tell me about ?
<R> Oh absolutely . I had , let 's see – I had managed to have multiple conversation with somebody at our center for entrepreneurship and our conversation were consistently revolving around this notion of how to incorporate risk capital into the academy and what would happen if the academy could be more perhaps take a more risk capital approach in investing in things that might not have a short term turn around just like industry , right .
Risk capital , makes investment into situations and projects where it 's believe there would be some kind of a positive long term outcome that there is less of focus on short term gain . I think the academia today does turn to look for situations that have positive outcomes very quickly and with the kind of psychology of scarcity today sometimes we can be short-sided in the kinds of decision making we 're engaging .
So in talking to the people in set of entrepreneurship I was able to sell the idea that combining art thinking with thinking from the sciences was in on itself a kind of outcome though it was not a kind of outcome that you would typically have if you were a business person or if you were starting a new non-profit that in fact kind of generation of ideas and the richness of a kind of emergent quality in discourses that would be shared would in fact be a form of entrepreneurship .
So in the spring of 2014 and the fall of 2014 I would run a one year long Fellows Programs that would bring people from the art and the sciences and the humanities together and they will also have guest speakers come in who work in an inter or trans or multi-disciplinary way to talk about ways that the different disciplines can come together to advance new ideas . And again with this notion that the outcomes will have a kind of emergent or generative kind of component .
<I> Wow , that 's fantastic . Given your answer may I ask , what does the phrase art integration mean to you ?
<R> Well , maybe I 'm spoiled because I 've been part of [ Group ] group for two years which has been really exciting but it means a two way trade . I think [ D ] perfectly in Art Engine Conference two years ago that ; you know , there has to be a two way trade . So art integration to me means that we extend our reach across campus by infusing the other disciplines with creativity which makes those disciplines richer . But we also bring people from those disciplines to the arts , we disengage them from their disciplinary foundations , bring them to the arts and have people from across campus and different units interacting with artists in a way that it happens on our own home territory and it 's very , very different than simply sending our artists out to take classes from other people . So art integration to me necessarily has to have that two way trade .
<I> Thank you so very much . May I ask , do you differentiate between interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary and if so how and why ?
<R> You know , that 's a really good question because inter , trans and cross disciplinary are used pretty much interchangeably I think colloquially . We did have a wonderful center for programs at [ U6 ] a few years ago and they did n't ever have in their program literature a definition for transdisciplinary but they certainly had one for interdisciplinary that made a lot sense to me and that definition was very much along the lines that members of more than one discipline would consider the perspectives of people from other disciplines before making their own sort of contributions to a particular area of research .
And I think transdisciplinary is very similar although – and this might be a minor distinction but interdisciplinary to me means that you consider the perspectives of a broader group of people before you advance something in your own territory where as transdisciplinary means that everybody is disengaged from their disciplinary foundation and they are in a kind of new agnostics space . So nobody is attached to their disciplinary home , everybody comes together to work with a common problem or issue .
So it might be a small distinction but the other distinction that might be worth mentioning is that I know the transdisciplinary – I believe there is a transdisciplinary institute in Australia and [ PT ] who runs that talks a lot about transdisciplinary being something that 's rooted in a kind of pre-disciplinary time . So that 's probably the most intelligent that can be in commenting to those things , yeah .
<I> That was pretty good .
<R> Okay .
<I> Now , going back to the art science initiative . Where there any disciplinary assumptions that cause difficulties between you and your partners or collaborators ?
<R> Oh absolutely I mean it really comes down to people never wanting to give money . You know , I 'm so heart felt and passionate about bringing the different territories together that I end up for example volunteering to teach in the medical school , the selective course – you know , these are more I think humanity base courses that medical students need to take . But they 've made it clear there is no money to pay me but you know , if I want to do , I can volunteer my time which I do because I think it 's very important work to do .
The medical school you know , they are somewhat interested in using the lobby of their facility next to the hospital as a show case but – and there is a lot of good people who are very , very invested in wanting to bring the areas together but in the end I think it 's a very conservative institution in that they are going for the kinds of ; receive knowledge and known measures for assessing success . I mean , it 's a medical school that compares itself to Harvard and all the top medical campuses across campus and this is where they measure their success first and anything else is a secondary consideration .
<I> So how did you and your colleagues address any obstacles in developing your project and proposal ? Were you explicit about any theoretical basis for negotiating clash in disciplinary assumptions or expectations ?
<R> Not yet because when the fellows come together I will you know , this would be one thing I would hope that they would hash out themselves because it belongs to an art science collaborative on LinkedIn which get very heated . You know . I 'm the former chair of the [ L ] Education and Art Forum . So these are things that never really solidify . There are a lot of different ideas when you talk project to project you know , what constitute research , how you get over the disciplinary divides . But obviously if you are collaborating with a neuroscientist is very , very different than if you are using data from the biological sciences . So it really does end up being a very case by case situation .
It 's also case by case if you are using data from the sciences to produce something in the art versus if you 've got artist in labs . So there is no one single model . So I 'm hoping that the fellows will actually sort of tease apart some of these issues and divides . I do think – again go back to [ D ] – I do think the institution should stake a claim in a kind of sharing of knowledge being the coin of the realm and that if you really back that idea then you put your money and your mouth behind making sure that there is solidity between the units . So we should have a conversation next year and we 'll see what the fellows have hashed out .
<I> I 'd love to be a fly in a wall in fact .
<R> Sure .
<I> May I ask what about language , communications , vocabulary and terminology , are you running into any difficulties with that between disciplines ?
<R> Not yet . I mean I think there is a lot of kind of good spirit and good will between people you know , it 's certainly true that even in the arts when you talk about deconstructionism , it means something – deconstruction as theory is different in literature than it is visual art . So there are all of these slippages you know , from having talking spoken to a lot of scientists in the last eight plus ; wow 14 years . I do find that science turns to find bridges to the art through – well through two ways , through biomedical and scientific imaging and also through ideas and sometimes those ideas are centered around ethics , bioethics .
But they also maybe not surprisingly turn to be centered around beauty . You know , science is really about discovery but when they talk about art often times the conversation return a discussion of beauty . And the art world has evolved pretty rapidly into a multiplicity of directions ; many of which really do n't in any way subscribe to any obligation to represent beauty .
So it 's interesting though that science since still you know , holds on to that that notion of sort of the sacred of the beauty and the beautiful ; these turn to be territories where the conversations can open up into the arts at least from perspective , I think of the scientist , yeah .
<I> Thank you so very much . May I ask , what kind of support have you been receiving from the university to pursue your project ?
<R> Well , I certainly received an awful lot at the [ U7 ] before I came to the [ U6 ] because the deans were all in agreement ; it was just a very trans-cross , interdisciplinary kind of place . [ U6 ] is very much that kind of place in spirit .
But I think the way that funding flows creates some very artificial boundaries between the territories . So I think a lot of the sharing of ideas and the sharing of discourse ends up happening through special grants or through people of common mind you know , who have a rapport with one another setting up kind of salons or fellowships that you know , that they are doing on their own time . And it 's really hard to advance things on a serious level or to for example produce a publication because unless you can buy out someone from the sciences and give them a course release they do n't have the time to dedicate .
So it really is still very much a labor of luck . In the medical school as they say though they are interested in spirit , there has n't been a kind of dedicated budget other than either limited budget for exhibitions and they did collaborate with me on one lecture two years ago when I brought [ EL ] from New York just speaking in medical school . And she has her practice based PhD and she was working with a neuroscientist so she could really speak to both audiences . But it has been quite limited I mean , people are in spirit , very collaborative but when it comes , when the rubber hits the road there are a lot of obstacles .
<I> Thank you so very much . I 'm going to read a statement and then I 'd like to ask you a question if I could . `` The role in the application of the arts and society has been expanding from high art to entrepreneurship to arts and medicine and beyond '' . Taking into account the statement that I 've just read , in your view what disciplines and practices constitute the arts ?
<R> What disciplines and practices constitute the arts ?
<I> Yes .
<R> Well , yeah I think I understand what you are getting out because of course and I 'm thinking of one example again back to the [ U7 ] and that 's the department of Organ a genesis where scientist are actually taking their scanning electron micro graphs to a facility that is rescanning them , recoloring them and recomposing them to make art works . So it 's a fantastically interesting project that 's very , very creative . But how do I understand arts in , what constitute the arts is what you are asking ?
<I> Yes , what disciplines and practices constitute the arts ?
<R> I 'll probably go back to a lot of the ways that the arts are soloed in the universities . So you have Visual Arts , you have Sound Arts , you have Literary Art , you have Music , you have Theater and Performing Arts , you have Performance Arts . And a lot of these actually focus around things that are very ocularcentric strangely . But all of the above is what I 'll consider to be arts and I 'll certainly say that at times images that are produced outside those territories perhaps in some of the laboratories , I 'd look at some medical images and I would absolutely say that they would rival what I 've seen in Chelsea Gallery in New York .
<I> Now , the next question we normally ask of the sciences but we are turning around a little bit on you . So what 's the benefit of collaboration with folks in the sciences ?
<R> Right .
<I> We normally ask them what 's the benefit of collaboration with folks in the arts but we are going to turn it around on you a little bit .
<R> Sure , absolutely , absolutely . Well , I mean certainly in my case , an awful a lot of what I 've been interested in if I may use myself as a case study . I 'm interested in scale and what it is that we understand about ourselves as being human in a genomic era can be thought of sort of aesthetically and philosophically by the use of the visual , the power of the visual is very , very strong .
I 'm even thinking about how biomedical visualization in a sort of advances as in biomedical visualization even change things like the abortion debate , right . I mean right you can see a fetus at the you know , at five weeks well , it 's pretty hard to argue that 's not human so then where do you fall on that debate whereas maybe if you had n't seen that photograph you might conceptualize you know , when life begins in a very different way .
So apparently image is very strong you know , even British Petroleum when with the oil spill you know , once you could n't see the spill anymore , once they made it transparent did n't matter home much of the oil was still in the ocean it was considered cleaned up .
So I would say that visualization is a huge way that artist interact with people in medicine . And then I would also that artist are really taking on a lot of the ethical issues that some time scientist do n't deal directly with the public . So if you are talking about issues involving DNA ownership or the complications of parthenogenesis , you know , making life out of Petrie Dish . Artist can kind of tease the parts some of those ethical issues . I think the danger has been that artist have n't always been terribly responsible in the way that they 've take on some of these debates .
I think that it 's important for artist to be responsible in understanding the complexity of what happens in science and if the art does n't in fact insight a reasoned debate on complex and controversial topic then we are doing a disservice by collaborating . So that 's kind of a long and rambling answer and I…
<I> And a good one though .
<R> Hope that I hit the target .
<I> Yes . May I ask , are you are full professor or an associate professor ?
<R> Full professor .
<I> Full professor ?
<R> That 's right .
<I> Alright , may I ask with regard to your project , you science initiative . Were you a junior faculty member , would this have counted towards tenure ?
<R> I believe it would have .
<I> A service teaching or research ?
<R> Well , it probably would have counted as service and also it would have gone back to my teaching because again the undefined outcome but implicit outcome is that when you have a Fellows Program that all the discussion that happening in that program eventually get taken back into your own teaching and research . So I would have been able to make a case for that , for the conversation to feed back into my research , for the conversation to feed back into my teaching and for the development of the Fellows Program itself to be service . So I think it would have been counting for towards tenure , yes .
<I> Is it something that you would advise junior faculty member to undertake ?
<R> It depends on the institution but I think at [ U6 ] , I think people know ahead of time what 's going to be important . And again you ca n't be doing only these things instead of exhibitions or instead of publishing or instead of doing conference presentation and disseminating your information , your field . But I think it very much qualifies for advancing your area , advancing your discipline , advancing your territory and advancing your field . So I think depending on how you coach it can absolutely count towards tenure . I think certain universities though would be very sticky but [ U6 ] and certainly [ U7 ] would count this kind of activity as counting towards tenure .
<I> Are you collaborators in the science also full professors or associate professors ?
<R> You know , I 'm in the process now of collecting them , so it 's going to be a smattering of all I 'm pretty sure .
<I> Alright .
<R> We are looking for people who would be full professor because what we are looking to do is build a very strong kind of community of stakeholders and you know just strategically we 'll have a lot more cloud as a group if we have full professors in there . But we certainly want to hit the whole spectrum .
<I> Alright , one last question . How do the arts , how does research in through or about the arts fit into your university 's research agenda and how would you live to see them fit ?
<R> Alight . Well , I think that you know so many different universities and so many authors are dealing with different definition of art as research . You know , I know that we all have our own various sundry and opinions about whether or not art is research . In fact , a couple of years ago I believe our dean was on a panel art as research .
I have to say I think , I 'd like to use a sort of analogate situation which is Peter Galison and Caroline Jones book called Picturing Science , Producing Arts . They basically start the first chapter of the book by saying ; there are pictures and science and there are pictures in art and why spent a life time arguing about which one falling which category , the point is both exist and both have value . So now that we get pass that let 's really get down brass task and talk about stuff .
I would say the same thing about arts , I mean , I 've just read volume after volume after volume of what constitute arts as research . I think the [ U7 ] is really smart about skirting the issue and basically taking a stand and planting a flag and saying art is on power with research whether or not it 's recognize formally as such or not we are going to make a case for recognizing the intrinsic value of art practice .
So I 'd like to see our university be more assertive about planting a flag and defining for ourselves the way that the center for programs define for itself ; what is disciplinary , what is cross disciplinary , what is interdisciplinary and what is multidisciplinary . So I 'd like to see us plant a little bit more of a flag . I would like to see us run a symposium where we bring some of the very erudite minds who have thought long and hard about these definitions to campus to debate it out . I mean I think this would be a fantastic two day long faculty retreat and symposium . I 'd like to see all of the faculty engaged in more education research .
I think I might be the only one who is doing three or four or even five education workshops a year or panels or keynote addresses on transdisciplinary art practices . So that 's how I would like to see these topics tease apart . I think the academic should be a restless place . I think we should be constantly questioning what we are doing . I think that the only opinions that matter are the ones that are informed .
So we all have cherished heart believes but if you not , if you do n't sort of have your fingers on the pulse of what the conversation is you can come to the table with a lot of heart felt cherished assumptions and opinions but they are not very realistic . So I 'd like to see everybody out there doing a lot more education research and so that our institution can be a leader that we can begin to actually shape people 's ideas about art and research rather than simply you know , falling into line .
<I> Thank you so very much . I 'm going to end the interview here in a just a second but I 'd like us to remain online for a moment . But before I go I just want or before I turn off the recorder I just want to make sure you understood that this was a recorded interview ?
<R> I do .
<I> And I had your permission to record the interview ?
<R> You do .
<I> Alright , I 'm going to turn of the recorder and I 'm going to remain with you here .
<R> Okay .
